# Luhmann on Zettelkasten
> "The problem of reading theoretical texts seems to consist in the fact that **they do not require just short-term memory but also long-term memory** in order to be able to distinguish between what is essential and what is not essential and what is new from what is merely repeated. **But one cannot remember everything**. This would simply be learning by heart. In other words, **one must read very selectively and must be able to extract extensively networked references**. One must be able to understand recursions. But how can one learn these skills, if no instructions can be given; or perhaps only about things that are unusual like “recursion” in the previous sentences as opposed to “must”?
> 
> **Perhaps the best method would be to take notes—not excerpts, but condensed reformulations of what has been read**. The re-description of what has already been described leads almost automatically to a training of paying attention to “frames,” or schemata of observation, or even to noticing conditions which lead the text to offer some descriptions but not others. What is not meant, what is excluded when something is asserted? If the text speaks of “human rights,” what is excluded by the author? Non-human rights? Human duties? Or is it comparing cultures or historical times that did not know human rights and could live very well without them?
> 
> **This leads to another question: what are we to do with what we have written down? Certainly, at first we will produce mostly garbage.** But we have been educated to expect something useful from our activities and soon lose confidence if nothing useful seems to result. **We should therefore reflect on whether and how we arrange our notes so that they are available for later access.** At least this should be a consoling illusion. This requires a computer or a card file with numbered index cards and an index. The constant accommodation of notes is then a further step in our working process. It costs time, but it is also an activity that goes beyond the mere monotony of reading and incidentally trains our memory."

One of my favorite pieces of writing on the Zettelkasten and why Luhmann values it. This comes from [his essay on reading](http://luhmann.surge.sh/learning-how-to-read). He also has a nice essay on [communicating with a zettelkasten](http://luhmann.surge.sh/communicating-with-slip-boxes).

This section from his essay is essentially saying that to create meaningful connections with our reading material, we must make an external form of long term memory. This long term memory takes the form of networked references within a large body of notes, using condensed reformulations of information. This condensed reformulations is also highly recommended for learning writ large through [the process of elaboration](https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007/978-1-4419-1428-6_170).
